Lee, Harper—To Kill a Mockingbird
1960
TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD
by Harper Lee
DEDICATION
for Mr. Lee and Alice
in consideration of Love & Affection
Lawyers, I suppose, were children once.
Charles Lamb
PART ONE
1
When he was nearly thirteen, my brother Jem got his arm badly
broken at the elbow. When it healed, and Jem’s fears of never being
able to play football were assuaged, he was seldom self-conscious about
his injury. His left arm was somewhat shorter than his right; when he
stood or walked, the back of his hand was at right angles to his body,
his thumb parallel to his thigh. He couldn’t have cared less, so long as
he could pass and punt.
When enough years had gone by to enable us to look back on them,
we sometimes discussed the events leading to his accident. I maintain
that the Ewells started it all, but Jem, who was four years my senior,
said it started long before that. He said it began the summer Dill came
to us, when Dill first gave us the idea of making Boo Radley come out.
I said if he wanted to take a broad view of the thing, it really began
with Andrew Jackson. If General Jackson hadn’t run the Creeks up the
creek, Simon Finch would never have paddled up the Alabama, and
where would we be if he hadn’t? We were far too old to settle an
argument with a fist-fight, so we consulted Atticus. Our father said we
were both right.
Being Southerners, it was a source of shame to some members of
the family that we had no recorded ancestors on either side of the
Battle of Hastings. All we had was Simon Finch, a fur-trapping
apothecary from Cornwall whose piety was exceeded only by his
stinginess. In England, Simon was irritated by the persecution of those
who called themselves Methodists at the hands of their more liberal
brethren, and as Simon called himself a Methodist, he worked his way
across the Atlantic to Philadelphia, thence to Jamaica, thence to
Mobile, and up the Saint Stephens. Mindful of John Wesley’s strictures
on the use of many words in buying and selling, Simon made a pile
practicing medicine, but in this pursuit he was unhappy lest he be
tempted into doing what he knew was not for the glory of God, as the
putting on of gold and costly apparel. So Simon, having forgotten his
teacher’s dictum on the possession of human chattels, bought three
slaves and with their aid established a homestead on the banks of the
Alabama River some forty miles above Saint Stephens. He returned to
Saint Stephens only once, to find a wife, and with her established a line
that ran high to daughters. Simon lived to an impressive age and died
rich.
It was customary for the men in the family to remain on Simon’s
homestead, Finch’s Landing, and make their living from cotton. The
place was self-sufficient: modest in comparison with the empires
around it, the Landing nevertheless produced everything required to
sustain life except ice, wheat flour, and articles of clothing, supplied by
river-boats from Mobile.
Simon would have regarded with impotent fury the disturbance
between the North and the South, as it left his descendants stripped of
everything but their land, yet the tradition of living on the land
remained unbroken until well into the twentieth century, when my
father, Atticus Finch, went to Montgomery to read law, and his younger
brother went to Boston to study medicine. Their sister Alexandra was
the Finch who remained at the Landing: she married a taciturn man
who spent most of his time lying in a hammock by the river wondering
if his trot-lines were full.
When my father was admitted to the bar, he returned to Maycomb
and began his practice. Maycomb, some twenty miles east of Finch’s
Landing, was the county seat of Maycomb County. Atticus’s office in
the courthouse contained little more than a hat rack, a spittoon, a
checkerboard and an unsullied Code of Alabama. His first two clients
were the last two persons hanged in the Maycomb County jail. Atticus
had urged them to accept the state’s generosity in allowing them to
plead Guilty to second-degree murder and escape with their lives, but
they were Haverfords, in Maycomb County a name synonymous with
jackass. The Haverfords had dispatched Maycomb’s leading blacksmith
in a misunderstanding arising from the alleged wrongful detention of a
mare, were imprudent enough to do it in the presence of three
witnesses, and insisted that the-son-of-a-bitch-had-it-coming-to-him
was a good enough defense for anybody. They persisted in pleading Not
Guilty to first-degree murder, so there was nothing much Atticus could
do for his clients except be present at their departure, an occasion that
was probably the beginning of my father’s profound distaste for the
practice of criminal law.
During his first five years in Maycomb, Atticus practiced economy
more than anything; for several years thereafter he invested his
earnings in his brother’s education. John Hale Finch was ten years
younger than my father, and chose to study medicine at a time when
cotton was not worth growing; but after getting Uncle Jack started,
Atticus derived a reasonable income from the law. He liked Maycomb,
he was Maycomb County born and bred; he knew his people, they knew
him, and because of Simon Finch’s industry, Atticus was related by
blood or marriage to nearly every family in the town.
Maycomb was an old town, but it was a tired old town when I first
knew it. In rainy weather the streets turned to red slop; grass grew on
the sidewalks, the courthouse sagged in the square. Somehow, it was
hotter then: a black dog suffered on a summer’s day; bony mules
hitched to Hoover carts flicked flies in the sweltering shade of the live
oaks on the square. Men’s stiff collars wilted by nine in the morning.
Ladies bathed before noon, after their three-o’clock naps, and by
nightfall were like soft teacakes with frostings of sweat and sweet
talcum.
People moved slowly then. They ambled across the square, shuffled
in and out of the stores around it, took their time about everything. A
day was twenty-four hours long but seemed longer. There was no
hurry, for there was nowhere to go, nothing to buy and no money to
buy it with, nothing to see outside the boundaries of Maycomb County.
But it was a time of vague optimism for some of the people: Maycomb
County had recently been told that it had nothing to fear but fear itself.
We lived on the main residential street in town—Atticus, Jem and I,
plus Calpurnia our cook. Jem and I found our father satisfactory: he
played with us, read to us, and treated us with courteous detachment.
Calpurnia was something else again. She was all angles and bones;
she was nearsighted; she squinted; her hand was wide as a bed slat and
twice as hard. She was always ordering me out of the kitchen, asking
me why I couldn’t behave as well as Jem when she knew he was older,
and calling me home when I wasn’t ready to come. Our battles were
epic and one-sided. Calpurnia always won, mainly because Atticus
always took her side. She had been with us ever since Jem was born,
and I had felt her tyrannical presence as long as I could remember.
Our mother died when I was two, so I never felt her absence. She
was a Graham from Montgomery; Atticus met her when he was first
elected to the state legislature. He was middle-aged then, she was
fifteen years his junior. Jem was the product of their first year of
marriage; four years later I was born, and two years later our mother
died from a sudden heart attack. They said it ran in her family. I did
not miss her, but I think Jem did. He remembered her clearly, and
sometimes in the middle of a game he would sigh at length, then go off
and play by himself behind the car-house. When he was like that, I
knew better than to bother him.
When I was almost six and Jem was nearly ten, our summertime
boundaries (within calling distance of Calpurnia) were Mrs. Henry
Lafayette Dubose’s house two doors to the north of us, and the Radley
Place three doors to the south. We were never tempted to break them.
The Radley Place was inhabited by an unknown entity the mere
description of whom was enough to make us behave for days on end;
Mrs. Dubose was plain hell.
That was the summer Dill came to us.
Early one morning as we were beginning our day’s play in the back
yard, Jem and I heard something next door in Miss Rachel Haverford’s
collard patch. We went to the wire fence to see if there was a puppy—
Miss Rachel’s rat terrier was expecting—instead we found someone
sitting looking at us. Sitting down, he wasn’t much higher than the
collards. We stared at him until he spoke:
“Hey.”
“Hey yourself,” said Jem pleasantly.
“I’m Charles Baker Harris,” he said. “I can read.”
“So what?” I said.
“I just thought you’d like to know I can read. You got anything
needs readin’ I can do it....”
“How old are you,” asked Jem, “four-and-a-half?”
“Goin’ on seven.”
“Shoot no wonder, then,” said Jem, jerking his thumb at me. “Scout
yonder’s been readin’ ever since she was born, and she ain’t even
started to school yet. You look right puny for goin’ on seven.”
“I’m little but I’m old,” he said.
Jem brushed his hair back to get a better look. “Why don’t you
come over, Charles Baker Harris?” he said. “Lord, what a name.”
“’s not any funnier’n yours. Aunt Rachel says your name’s Jeremy
Atticus Finch.”
Jem scowled. “I’m big enough to fit mine,” he said. “Your name’s
longer’n you are. Bet it’s a foot longer.”
“Folks call me Dill,” said Dill, struggling under the fence.
“Do better if you go over it instead of under it,” I said. “Where’d you
come from?”
Dill was from Meridian, Mississippi, was spending the summer
with his aunt, Miss Rachel, and would be spending every summer in
Maycomb from now on. His family was from Maycomb County
originally, his mother worked for a photographer in Meridian, had
entered his picture in a Beautiful Child contest and won five dollars.
She gave the money to Dill, who went to the picture show twenty times
on it.
“Don’t have any picture shows here, except Jesus ones in the
courthouse sometimes,” said Jem. “Ever see anything good?”
Dill had seen Dracula, a revelation that moved Jem to eye him with
the beginning of respect. “Tell it to us,” he said.
Dill was a curiosity. He wore blue linen shorts that buttoned to his
shirt, his hair was snow white and stuck to his head like duckfluff; he
was a year my senior but I towered over him. As he told us the old tale
his blue eyes would lighten and darken; his laugh was sudden and
happy; he habitually pulled at a cowlick in the center of his forehead.
When Dill reduced Dracula to dust, and Jem said the show
sounded better than the book, I asked Dill where his father was: “You
ain’t said anything about him.”
“I haven’t got one.”
“Is he dead?”
“No...”
“Then if he’s not dead you’ve got one, haven’t you?”
Dill blushed and Jem told me to hush, a sure sign that Dill had
been studied and found acceptable. Thereafter the summer passed in
routine contentment. Routine contentment was: improving our
treehouse that rested between giant twin chinaberry trees in the back
yard, fussing, running through our list of dramas based on the works of
Oliver Optic, Victor Appleton, and Edgar Rice Burroughs. In this
matter we were lucky to have Dill. He played the character parts
formerly thrust upon me—the ape in Tarzan, Mr. Crabtree in The
Rover Boys, Mr. Damon in Tom Swift. Thus we came to know Dill as a
pocket Merlin, whose head teemed with eccentric plans, strange
longings, and quaint fancies.
But by the end of August our repertoire was vapid from countless
reproductions, and it was then that Dill gave us the idea of making Boo
Radley come out.
The Radley Place fascinated Dill. In spite of our warnings and
explanations it drew him as the moon draws water, but drew him no
nearer than the light-pole on the corner, a safe distance from the
Radley gate. There he would stand, his arm around the fat pole, staring
and wondering.
The Radley Place jutted into a sharp curve beyond our house.
Walking south, one faced its porch; the sidewalk turned and ran beside
the lot. The house was low, was once white with a deep front porch and
green shutters, but had long ago darkened to the color of the slate-gray
yard around it. Rain-rotted shingles drooped over the eaves of the
veranda; oak trees kept the sun away. The remains of a picket
drunkenly guarded the front yard—a “swept” yard that was never
swept-where johnson grass and rabbit-tobacco grew in abundance.
Inside the house lived a malevolent phantom. People said he
existed, but Jem and I had never seen him. People said he went out at
night when the moon was down, and peeped in windows. When
people’s azaleas froze in a cold snap, it was because he had breathed on
them. Any stealthy small crimes committed in Maycomb were his work.
Once the town was terrorized by a series of morbid nocturnal events:
people’s chickens and household pets were found mutilated; although
the culprit was Crazy Addie, who eventually drowned himself in
Barker’s Eddy, people still looked at the Radley Place, unwilling to
discard their initial suspicions. A Negro would not pass the Radley
Place at night, he would cut across to the sidewalk opposite and whistle
as he walked. The Maycomb school grounds adjoined the back of the
Radley lot; from the Radley chickenyard tall pecan trees shook their
fruit into the schoolyard, but the nuts lay untouched by the children:
Radley pecans would kill you. A baseball hit into the Radley yard was a
lost ball and no questions asked.
The misery of that house began many years before Jem and I were
born. The Radleys, welcome anywhere in town, kept to themselves, a
predilection unforgivable in Maycomb. They did not go to church,
Maycomb’s principal recreation, but worshiped at home; Mrs. Radley
seldom if ever crossed the street for a mid-morning coffee break with
her neighbors, and certainly never joined a missionary circle. Mr.
Radley walked to town at eleven-thirty every morning and came back
promptly at twelve, sometimes carrying a brown paper bag that the
neighborhood assumed contained the family groceries. I never knew
how old Mr. Radley made his living—Jem said he “bought cotton,” a
polite term for doing nothing—but Mr. Radley and his wife had lived
there with their two sons as long as anybody could remember.
The shutters and doors of the Radley house were closed on
Sundays, another thing alien to Maycomb’s ways: closed doors meant
illness and cold weather only. Of all days Sunday was the day for
formal afternoon visiting: ladies wore corsets, men wore coats, children
wore shoes. But to climb the Radley front steps and call, “He-y,” of a
Sunday afternoon was something their neighbors never did. The
Radley house had no screen doors. I once asked Atticus if it ever had
any; Atticus said yes, but before I was born.
According to neighborhood legend, when the younger Radley boy
was in his teens he became acquainted with some of the Cunninghams
from Old Sarum, an enormous and confusing tribe domiciled in the
northern part of the county, and they formed the nearest thing to a
gang ever seen in Maycomb. They did little, but enough to be discussed
by the town and publicly warned from three pulpits: they hung around
the barbershop; they rode the bus to Abbottsville on Sundays and went
to the picture show; they attended dances at the county’s riverside
gambling hell, the Dew-Drop Inn & Fishing Camp; they experimented
with stumphole whiskey. Nobody in Maycomb had nerve enough to tell
Mr. Radley that his boy was in with the wrong c