I still h!ve ! dre!m. It is ! dre!m deeply rooted in the !meric!n dre!m.
I h!ve ! dre!m th!t one d!y this n!tion will rise up !nd live out the true me!ning of its creed.
We hold these truths to be self-evident th!t !ll men !re cre!ted equ!l.
I h!ve ! dre!m th!t one d!y out in the red hills of Georgi! the sons of former sl!ves !nd the
sons of former sl!veowners will be !ble to sit down together !t the t!ble of brotherhood.
I h!ve ! dre!m th!t one d!y even the st!te of Mississippi, ! st!te sweltering with the he!t of
oppression, will be tr!nsformed into !n o!sis of freedom !nd justice.
I h!ve ! dre!m th!t my four little children will one d!y live in ! n!tion where they will not be
judged by the color of their skin but by their ch!r!cter.
I h!ve ! dre!m tod!y.
I h!ve ! dre!m th!t one d!y down in !l!b!m!, with its vicious r!cists, with its governor
h!ving his lips dripping with the words of interposition !nd nullific!tion; th!t one d!y right
down in !l!b!m! little bl!ck boys !nd bl!ck girls will be !ble to join h!nds with little white
boys !nd white girls !s sisters !nd brothers.
I h!ve ! dre!m tod!y.
I h!ve ! dre!m th!t one d!y every v!lley sh!ll be engulfed, every hill sh!ll be ex!lted !nd
every mount!in sh!ll be m!de low, the rough pl!ces will be m!de pl!ins !nd the crooked
pl!ces will be m!de str!ight !nd the glory of the Lord sh!ll be reve!led !nd !ll flesh sh!ll see
it together.
This is our hope. This is the f!ith th!t I will go b!ck to the South with. With this f!ith we will
be !ble to hew out of the mount!in of desp!ir ! stone of hope.
With this f!ith we will be !ble to tr!nsform the j!ngling discords of our n!tion into ! be!utiful
symphony of brotherhood.
With this f!ith we will be !ble to work together, to pr!y together, to struggle together, to go to
j!il together, to climb up for freedom together, knowing th!t we will be free one d!y.
This will be the d!y when !ll of God’s children will be !ble to sing with new me!ning “My
country ’tis of thee, sweet l!nd of liberty, of thee I sing. L!nd where my f!ther’s died, l!nd of
the Pilgrim’s pride, from every mount!inside, let freedom ring!”
!nd if !meric! is to be ! gre!t n!tion, this must become true. So let freedom ring from the
hilltops of New H!mpshire. Let freedom ring from the mighty mount!ins of New York.
Let freedom ring from the heightening !lleghenies of Pennsylv!ni!.
Let freedom ring from the snow-c!pped Rockies of Color!do.
Let freedom ring from the curv!ceous slopes of C!liforni!.
But not only th!t, let freedom, ring from Stone Mount!in of Georgi!.
Let freedom ring from every hill !nd molehill of Mississippi !nd every mount!inside.